[Music] Welcome back to Behind the Bastards podcast hosted by who I assume is the new pope based on reading the first twothirds of an article title that showed up in my phone the other day. Um, how long is bit going to go on for is my question. Exactly one more episode, Sophie. I have slightly I have slightly more bit to do here. Slightly more for life. Well, yeah, that is that is how it tends. Well, no, that one guy got to quit. Uh, the Nazi. Yeah, Nazis, famous [Laughter] quitters. So, we are joined once again by Sophie Ray Lurman and Blake Wexler, our guest for today. Blake, how you doing? I'm doing great. I can't wait to hear more about this guy. Yeah. Uh, well, I can't wait to figure out my pope name. You know, I've been I've been thinking about it, right? What am I going to do? You know what? Am I going to what is who am I going to be as pope? Because every pope gets to pick a name. You're going to be you're going to be Pope Sophie. No, no, no. I think I figured it out. Sophie, I think I'm going to have a lot more fun if if if my pope name is just the whole script to be movie. Um just going to really take that bit to its ultimate extent. Just destroy the computing systems at the Vatican. The entire Catholic Church is like online infrastructure falls apart. priest with Chromebooks just lighting on fire in rectories. It's going to be beautiful. Uh the movie 90% improvised though, so I don't know how long the script is. Seinfeld did a lot of improv at that. I do know how long the script is because it's been printed on a number of t-shirts at this point. Oh my god, that's amazing. It's an older meme. Uh but it checks out. So we're we're back and we're talking about the life of Carl Schmidt, arch theoretician of Nazism. well, of fascism in general, too. We left things off on the eve of World War I. Our boy Carl is in love with a con artist, but his academic career is slowly starting to pick up steam. The way academic life works at this point is that he's basically locked in a series of unpaid internships and thus constantly begging his uncle and his rich friends, like the the parents of his rich friends for money. The Eisler family is his most reliable source of support. his whole goal, he says this often in his diary and when talking to Kari, he wants to get rich, right? He wants to be wealthy. And the way to do that then as a public intellectual, just like it is now, is to write a book, right? Now, today you have to write the worst book ever, which gets harder every year because so many so many terrible terrible books are written by public intellectuals every year. Back at this period of time, your book had to be have a little more depth to it. And the first his first stab at this is a work called word of the state. And this is that's the English translation. The German phrase that means word of the state is a reference to a concept uh in like German law uh of the state in which the government and its rulers are constrained in what they can do to people by the law. Right? So that's basic like that that's the the title of his book and the the purpose of this book is to try to figure out what makes a state legitimate. Right? and its law is legitimate. Carl comes to define a legitimate state as a state with a constitution. Not a state that does this or that or that treats people a certain way, but a state that has like a set of listed rules that institutionalizes the relationship between power and right. Right? So, how individuals are treated, whether they have rights, that doesn't matter. What matters is that the state spells out what it can and will do when and where somewhere, right? That's the the important thing. He includes a line in this work that I find fundamentally chilling. Quote, "Whatever it is that makes a person is determined by the legal system itself." And that's that's a that's bad. It's going to lead you some dark places, Carl. Going to lead us all some very dark places, right? But it makes sense if you're coming to this idea that like yeah the the the law determines ethics and reality and thus the law determines what is a person right and can unperson people which is sort of the he's not writing about that at this point but it's kind of the inevitable conclusion it's like well if the law makes a person the law can stop you from being a person individuals he argues only and what's when I say that I think he's there's a degree of brilliance here it's not that this is a good way to think about things. But this is accurate to the way states work already. As soon as as long as there have been states, this is how states have functioned. Whether you like it or not, even our state, right? All this [ __ ] that we have about natural rights and that there's inherent rights. No, you should know right now by watching the news, none of that means anything. The state and the people with guns within it determine what is treated as a person by the state. Right? That's what Carl's recognizing, right? And that's what Carl is laying out and that is accurate whether or not you like it. Right? Um individuals he argues only gain significance by working for and supporting the state. So he again while he's sort of act there's a degree to which even as an anarchist you could be like oh this guy's right in a lot of ways but where he differs is he's like and that's great. It's good that it works this way. It's cool. It's cool that the state arbitrarily decides what makes a person right. Um, and he argues that this is good because individuals only gain significance when working for and supporting the state. In other words, you mean nothing outside of your place within the state and its power structure. He also argues the law is not based on power. Power is based on law. And he seems to believe again there's this almost spiritual natural order that the law naturally moves to better represent, right? Which is weird. Now, not long after this, Schmidt gets married, or at least he thinks he does. They They have like a wedding, but Kyrie loses her passport, and so they can't get it certified. These documents [ __ ] documents, these damn pieces of paper. And again, it is weirdly like this like proof that he's there's there's something fundamentally accurate about his conception of the state because like much as he he's like, "No, Kari's my wife." The state's like, "No, she's not. that that's on us to decide and we've decided no cuz she doesn't have a passport. So she has to there's they're like heading back to their house to finally be together and like their marital home and she has to suddenly when like this clerk comes out and is like wait the passport's both like she doesn't have a passport. I can't do this. They have to bundle her off to live with his mom so that they don't live in sin. um like on like what's supposed to be their wedding day. And Carl starts having panic attacks about the fact that Kari is now living with his family. Quote, "She is in the company of my hateful, mean, and vicious mother and my spoiled little sister Anna. Only father makes life easy for her. I don't know what will become of me." She's like, "She's going to leave me because my family sucks and she has to live with them now." Um, I don't know what will become of it. It all comes back to him, too, where it's like, he wasn't talking about what is it going to become of me. Yeah. What's going to come of my wife, right? I also do love that. Like, yeah, it's good. Like the state determines what a person is. And like this is good and our only value comes from the role that we play within the state. And also, oh, the thing that I want more than anything isn't possible because the state has decided my wife isn't a real person. Um I obviously don't know exactly how I mean I have an idea of how this story ends obviously like that's been established but it is interesting that it seems like he's he's turn he turns on the people closest to him where obviously because of how his ideologies was adopted by Nazis his best friend who was a Jew that doesn't end well and then also a lot of no not no it doesn't a lot of his friends were these artists and artists do not work for the state it's the complete opposite so they don't matter essentially. So, it's interesting that he keeps doing this. Yes. Yes. And it really is like uh Yeah. So, through the end of 1913, he's having constant panic attacks. Uh and we can surmise his parents. This is like a family trait, right? Because when he he describes them in his diary in a way that like a modern reader is like, "Oh, that that [ __ ] is having a panic attack." Right? But he calls them Schmidt effects, right? as in like this is like a Schmidt family characteristic that we have these freakouts and it's like oh yeah okay so your your parents are are like also have this problem right and they passed it on to you and you'd think it's just you and your family that you're the only people who have ever felt Of course you do at this period of it's 1913 where would you have read about panic attacks we just have heart attacks all the time when we get nervous we all have heart attacks it's a schmid thing we have high cholesterol Yeah, we're the only ones who do this. So he writes about this in his diaries and Merring notes that in the wake of these, he expresses the bulk of his anti-Semitic opinions, right? That while he's kind of like dealing with this uh this really stressful period of I can't marry this woman that I love. This the state doesn't consider her legitimate. Maring notes that in the wake of these he he writes quote saw the two Jews Jacobson and Lesing bickering and was glad I no longer have to anything to do with Rosenbal who's another Jewish friend of his. I don't want contact with Eler anymore either. So he like sees these two Jewish guys he knows arguing and he's like ah it's just like it's just what those kind of people do. I'm never going to have any contact with them again. Now this is not going to be a permanent state. So, it shows that bigotry is this thing that he comes back to and discards and comes back to, but it's not a stable state for him at this point because he and Eisler are going to be dear friends again and and for a considerable like he will continue to talk about him well and other have other Jewish friends after this period. The point is that his racism is erratic and it's correlated both with stressful times in his life and also these flights of fantasy, right? Well, he'll he'll write out this anti-semitic screed and then he'll declare to his diary, I'm going to get into politics and become a powerful man. And then the next day he'll write about how he and Kari are going to have a son named Johan and he's going to grow up to be a cardinal. And then like a couple of days later he's going to be like, "I'm still too broke. I can't marry my wife. This is never we're never going to have our kid." And he's so [ __ ] Catholic that when he becomes convinced he's not going to be able to have a kid with this woman for financial reasons and because of her like legal issues, he writes in his diary, "I am a murderer. I am destroyed. Have turned into nothing and have murdered the soul of a child. Where should I seek refuge in the Catholic church? But I can't. I might as well go to the great Dalai Lama of Tibet or some Mexican god." And first off, bro, like even even at this period, most Mexicans are Catholic, too. Like just as a heads up, like it's the same most of them, it's the same God you're worshiping, right? Like this guy read those books. Yeah. That he believes the life begins before you have sex with the person. Life begins when you documentation. Just anything but going to therapy. I know it's a sign of the times, but my god begins when you and your con artist wife declare that you're going to have a son who becomes a cardinal destroyed. Yeah, we killed this boy. This boy Johan. Little Johan. Little Yan's dead now. This is essentially an abortion. I guess I am kind of impressed that he knows who the Dalai Lama is in this period of time. So, I don't know. You know, it's a mix. we contain mo well on some things again he also thinks Mexican people don't aren't Catholic in large part obviously like there's religions in that part of the world that have existed before Catholicism but at this period of time that's the dominant religion is the same as his um anyway he comes to see himself as a gnostic after this point in other words someone who believes that there's this like malicious god that created the world right I think it's he's basically believes like the demiurge is what other people worship as the god and like what these other folks what I was raised to believe is god is actually this evil being that just wants to [ __ ] with us right um now the fact that he comes around to this belie this heretical belief is entirely centered upon his own financial and career frustrations right before the war breaks out his wife gets caught shoplifting again this lady she's always stealing stuff the best she's the best she gets caught stealing [ __ ] and it causes like a year worth of problems for him because he can't afford to pay the con and like he's just trying to keep her out of jail. So, it's this whole constant like stressful issue on him. The fact that his wife got caught shoplifting his con artist wife and then what was that horrible phrase? Tingle tangle. What was that? Tingle tangle girl. Yes. Right. Right. Yes. His wife, the burlesque dancing con artist, is shoplifting and it just [ __ ] him up. Um, and then while he's trying to deal with all of this, Archduke FR Ferdinand gets shot in Sievo and World War I starts winding up. Carl is 26 at the time that it becomes inevitable that Germany is going to, you know, have make some really bad decisions along with everyone else. To be fair, Germany's bad decisions aren't unique in this period. Um, now this is another massive moment for most future German fascists, but not for Carl. Carl is not a German patriot. Hitler is like Hitler has these strong He's there when the Kaiser announces the start of the war in Berlin. He's part of there's pictures of him. You can find him in the crowd and he's like in raptured. He describes this like religious experience. He's so overjoyed to be going to war on behalf of the fatherland. And Carl's like, "Fuck this illegal war. This is Prussian [ __ ] The Prussians orchestrated all of this. The rest of us Germans want nothing to do with this. I certainly go to war with the French. My family's half French. [ __ ] these people. [ __ ] all of this. This is illegal as hell. Right. So, he is not at all. And in fact, he writes in his diary, I hope the French win. And he'll be doing that throughout the war. Like, if the I just hope the I just want the enemy to win, so this is done. This is not a patriot, right? Absolutely not at all. So, it it it's interesting because he's going to be so influential to the fascist movement. He has the opposite reaction of basically all of these other guys. Now that said, he knows the war is wrong and dumb, but he doesn't protest it and he's not a conscientious objector. He just doesn't really care about it. One gets the feeling he thinks that like the whole conflict is something that less intelligent people should care about. Like not him. He has a lot of thinking about what law is to do, right? Um he doesn't volunteer immediately like a lot of people do, like a lot of his friends do. and he seems to be hoping like maybe the war will end quickly and I just will get to miss out on this. Right? Now, you can contrast this to his best friend. Right? Again, Iler is a Hungarian national who desperately wants to be German. He's otherred both because he's Hungarian and because he's Jewish. And he had tried repeatedly before the war to become a naturalized German citizen. And every time he does it, the authorities are like, "Nah, we don't need you." And he wants this in part because he's getting his doctorate and he can't actually get confirmed as a PhD or work in law unless he's a naturalized German citizen. He wants to he wants to work in the German government, right? He wants to be a part of the court system and he has to be a citizen. And the chief of police before the war, the chief of police in Hamburgg denies citizenship petition by writing quote due to the Hungarian Jewish descent of the applicant and his father's criminal record that he couldn't approve the application. his dad had done some petty crimes as a younger man. Um so when the war breaks out, Eisler applies again and this time the German government is number one the authorities who had been like turning him down are in the military now. So, it's like people who are younger and maybe a little less bigoted who are, you know, making that call and they're like, "All right, you want to join the army, we'll let you do that and we'll make you a citizen, but you have to sign a paper promising you'll never work for the government, right? You'll never you'll never go after a government career or try to take the state exam to be like considered a doctor in Germany, right? If you do those things, we'll make you a citizen and you can join the army." And Eisler agrees. That's how badly this kid wants to be a German patriot, which is such a bummer given not only what Germany's going to do to Jewish people not all that far from now, but given what's going to happen to him, cuz all this kid wants is to be accepted as German. And he feels like, ah, the military, they can't they can't other me if I'm in the military, right? They have to respect me as a as a as a as a patriotic German citizen if I serve in combat. Um, so despite the fact that Schmidt had pretty recently written a lot of racist [ __ ] about Eisler, he writes at the time of having great worry for his friend when Eisler joins the army and notes, "If only he is not killed in action, the dear old fellow." Unfortunately, Fritz Eler joins a field artillery unit and he is deployed immediately after the outbreak of hostilities. He is killed by shrapnel almost immediately. Um, you know, his battery is firing, allied counter battery fire hits nearby, and he gets like gutted by a piece of metal. Mering writes, "Shmitt was moved by his untimely death. As a last favor to his friend, he edited one of Eisler's papers and he like goes to Eisler's family to express his concerns, to help them deal with his dead friend's like, you know, stuff." Uh, and he get he becomes almost immediately very good friends with Fritz's brother, George. And the two will remain friends until 1932. Like he kind of switches his best friendship to George Eisler. And it will stay that way almost until Hitler rises to power. And he gets actually much closer with the Eislers after Fritz dies. He stays over at their house. And he writes that he's like surprised. Wow, these Jews are like a normal German family. I didn't think that that was the case with Jewish people. And at the end of this, George's father is like, "Hey man, how much money do you need to keep continue until you're able to like get to the money making part of your career?" And writes him a check. So again, even up to this point, this family is treating him like a son. Like Carl Schmidt probably doesn't have an academic career without the Eislers backing him up. Like they really do take him in. Um, now he has to join the military not long after this because he's a young German man and they don't have enough of those very quickly. Germany has a lot of young German men in 19 late 1914 and then a couple months after August a lot less German young men. So, so they're keep going where these German men keep going. They're just kind of feeding them into into French machine guns. Now the French are doing the same thing, right? Everybody's How fast can we get rid of our young men? turns out very um so he joins a reserve infantry unit, right? Which the fact that he does this suggests he's trying to keep himself out of combat again in the hope that the war might end quickly. Now, most of the reserve units in 1914 wind up on the front line because it's just that kind of war. Uh but he's going to try in other ways to delay his service. Bala Krishnan writes, "While he was in basic training, he claimed to have sustained a back injury." And the way Bala Christian writes it suggests that he doesn't really think this is a real injury or that like Schmidt plays it up to delay things. But once again, luck is on his side. Schmidt's first mentor, Vancalker because he's like a high a respected gentleman. He joins the army and they're like, "Well, you're a major." And obviously he had spent time in the military before cuz everyone does basically he had done like his period of na of national service. So when he joins the full-time army, he's made a major by virtue of the fact that he is a very very respected professor. Um, and because he's got this position, he's able to get Schmidt uh a place in the prince's personal regiment. Now, this is not safe. Actually, if you're in like the prince's regiment in the German army, you're going to see heavy combat because the prince wants glory and he's going to send boys to die to do it. A lot of his colleagues get killed. But Vancalker is like, "No, no, no. Carl Schmidt is not someone we want to feed to machine guns. This guy is smart. He's going to be somebody." And he gets him a job in the headquarters section, basically shuffling paperwork around, helping to like handle organizational tasks. And as a result, for the entirety of the war, Schmidt is never particularly close to like direct fire. I don't even think he's very close to indirect. He's never in serious danger, right? You know, like elevated from his civilian life, but he is not fighting, right? and he's not fighting because this mentor again comes in and probably saves his life, right? To be like, "No, no, no. This guy, we don't want this guy up at the front. It's just a waste." A mentor he turns on. Yeah. Well, he he doesn't he just stop. He just kind of abandons him at a certain point. Yeah. Um now after training, but before he deploys, Carl takes one last stab at Mary and Kari. And this time, the whole system works differently because there's a war on. the officials who'd held up on naturalizing her were either deployed or had decided like, "Look, this boy is probably going to die like everybody. Give him a chance to get this girl pregnant and continue the family line, right?" Like, that's that's the idea. They're really they're rubber stamping a lot of marriages at this stage. Um, we're going to send these babies to the front line. These men are getting younger and younger. We're going to need more German boys very soon. Um, now her birth certificate's obviously fake. Uh, and she's got pending shoplifting charges, but they manage to like brute force this through and the two finally get married legally. Carl is immediately deployed and he [ __ ] hates it. He hates the army. For the first time and only time in his life, because of how much he hates being in the army, he radically revises his entire legal and philosophical theory about how the world works. He describes life in barracks as a hell where he was forced to endure the stink of plebs because he had and you know he had previously he had been like well human value depends upon how you are serving the state and now that he is serving the state as effectively its property he's like oh but that's awful that sucks ass no can't be how things work [ __ ] this is what serving the state's like this isn't valuable at all I hate the state um but no he writes that he hated quote the god of this world, the law for its destruction of the individual. Interesting. Interesting. This is he's not going to stay consistent to this, but it is very funny to me that like the moment he's made to live with his beliefs, he's like, "Oh, well, obviously this is a terrible idea." Mhm. Yeah. Um, now he began even to dislike his mentor Vancalker in this time. This is kind of when the break with him begins because Vancalker is a smart man. He was not an advocate for war, but he serves and he serves enthusiastically uh and without great disgust. And he even tell they have an argument at one point and Vancalker's like, "Look, if the if the state has to break commit some minor illegality in order to win the war, that's okay." And Carl's like, "What the [ __ ] That's not what you taught me at all. Like, this isn't how it's supposed to work." And he writes, "He has become unfaithful to himself." And and it's interesting Schmidt's private musings during this period read almost like like protest literature. Quote, I was mad with anger about the Prussians, about militarism. I felt like committing the most ostentatious insubordinations. So he's like, I really wanted to rebel, but he doesn't. Obviously, he's not that guy. Um, as part of his early service, he goes to DACA, which at that point, we know what DACA is going to be later. It's a munitions plant at this stage. and he writes and he's talking about like looking at this the conditions in these arms factories and he says how ghastly for an individual to be sitting in such a prison and it's interesting to me that like that's his attitude about docau when it's like an arms facility but he is going to be one of the early you know people who helps to fill up concentration camps um yeah interesting so the war means that he had the skill set to do that yes and the yeah the personal to do it. Yes. But also the ability to understand that something considerably less awful than dock out the concentration camp is still bad. So theoretically the ability to understand that what he was doing in dockout like what he was doing and putting helping to put people in dockout was wrong. Um could do an ad here even though that was really concent. Uh ads. Jesus Christ. We're not doing good with the ad transition today people. Um, it's kind of hard on a subject like this. This is my favorite producer on air host dynamic, by the way, I've ever seen. Just bummed. This is just us in real life. Anyway, enough about concentration camps. Here's some word from the gap. Uh, are you wearing from baby gap? The gap. I do wish it I do wish it was the gap. How funny would that be? I do wish it was the gap. But it's going to be something so much worse that we're not even aware of. I don't know. Is there anything worse than the gap? Yes, probably. All the things we're about to talk about. Um, yes. And that's all the only these things. So, the war ends in 1918 and Schmidt's relief is tempered by the fact by what appeared to be like the dissolution of the German state. Germany is falling apart as soon as there's like a pe like peace happens. And this whole order, the legal order that his whole life had been based on looks like it's just going to crumble. Like the legal code is going to be gone. The government, the Kaiser's already gone. What the [ __ ] going to be left? And part of what's happening is that there is a socialist revolution right after peace that like comes pretty close to to succeeding in some areas. Units of remobilized or demobilized soldiers, the Fryore, crack down and start massacring leftist intellectuals with the direct endorsement of the right. and the tacid support of social democratic politicians who are like, "Yeah, it's ugly, but we otherwise we won't get to have our democratic state if if we don't let, you know, if we don't let the right murder all of these leftists." Um, Schmidt is lecturing at a university by this point. And during the late war years, he'd begun to receive pay for his work as an academic. His office was broken into by what Balak Krishnan describes as a band of revolutionaries who are just like yeah a bunch of young people who are trying to like overthrow the local government. And while he's at a cafe an officer sitting next to him at a table gets assassinated and he reacts by growing terrified of disorder but he's also it's not just that he's like horrified by these revolutionary moments that are so chaotic and scary. He also recognizes, oh, when things fall apart, you have the chance to dramatically remake society, including the chance to remake the law and the concept of order, maybe in a way that makes more sense. And and that's what he's thinking at the time. And so, it's also noteworthy that even though he he doesn't like the leftist, you know, kind of uprisings that are happening, they scare him, he's not an obsessive anti-Marxist at this point either. And in fact, Balacrisha notes that it's there's not really any anti-Marxism in his writings from this period, which he describes as quite simply puzzling. It's like really weird that given how he felt about this, he didn't like go on any rants about Marxism. It it's just kind of an odd fact here. And it may it may have something to do with the fact that he sees this as more a structural thing of like, well, yeah, it's the left doing it right now, but when things collapse, opportunity is made for people of radical beliefs. And so it's the factor the really the reality of collapse is more to blame for it than anything. And he's more interested than like ranting about the left. He's more interested in figuring out how to take advantage of those moments. Right now this period of chaos would inspire his first great and truly influential book, Political Romanticism, published in 1919. This is a prefascist work because again fascism isn't really off the ground all the way yet of what we would call fascist polyimics. He's basically listing all of the ideologies that exist in the world at the time from socialism and monarchism to like liberalism as flawed. He he calls them dead romanticism, right? Like these are and and he calls conservatism that, right? Conservatism is just this dead romantic idea, right? Um he in fact expresses nothing but contempt for conservative reactionaries who in that period sought the Kaiser's return. So he's like you're just looking back on a period that was never very good and you're not serious thinkers, right? But he's also looking at the liberals in VHimar and being like well you're you're idolizing this democracy that number one was birthed in blood and number two isn't going to succeed in fixing anything. Now, the core of Schmidt's rage is reserved not for the political class, but for the kind of bohemian artists and creatives who'd made up his pre-war friend and social circle. We might see this as an early attack on the same sort of like shallow Hollywood liberal elites that would become such a hallmark of conservative politics in our era. And I want to quote from an article on the power of Carl Schmidt by Richard Cohen. Schmidt reduced and attacked all contemporary political al alternatives to fascism, especially liberalism, but also socialism as mere romanticism because of their attachment to free speech, discussion, and hence parliamentarianism, which Schmidt, owing to his decisionism, dismissed as empty chatter masking a deeper inability to decide. He labels such politics romantic for the same reason, because the romantics are essentially indecisive estates, fluttering from one fashion to another, always stimulated and excited, but never committed and engaged. That's kind of interesting to me that he is he's he's rejecting all of these different belief systems as based in sorts of fantasies about how things should be and not a real understanding of how people are. Right? That's the conclusion he's come to at this point. Um now he is a fantasizer himself. It's so interesting where like how how prone he I not the first fascist who's prone to fantasy and no it is interesting the contradictions with him of oh like uh everything has to be rule of law you know like you are not a productive member of society unless you're serving the state also you know like my uh like my wife is a you know like she's not she's Croatian but she's yeah she's a countist she's a countist countist is yeah it's also interesting he has this experience experience of like, ah, all that matters is what you do as part of the state. And then it's like, oh wait, that sucks ass. And it's like, yeah, because you had a romantic view of what that meant. That was proven wrong. And he's still attacking his enemies for being like romantics, but unable to see that strain in himself. And he's like a professor. Like that's not Yeah. He's not serving the state either, you know, like. So yeah, it's interesting. No, but again, he is always looking at people. He always he's always seeing real problems like among this class of like artists and celebrities in Berlin. Uh he he sees how kind of hollow they're they're signaling at these democratic values are and concludes the most important source of political vitality is the belief in justice and an indignation over injustice. Um he notes that what's important is not like how either of them are defined but that they have a definition and stick to it. Like Schmidt, he's kind of got this Walter Socheck from the big Labowski attitude of like you got to have an ethos. It doesn't matter what it is as long as you spell it out, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This book, just write it down. As long as it's written down, right? Yeah. This book marks the last time in his career that Schmidt centered ethics in any way. For the remainder of his decades as a jurist and legal philosopher, he is interested only in power. And as the post-war years become the 20s, Mussolini marches on Rome and fascism get becomes the name on every tongue. Europe begins its slow drive to the brink and Schmidt is initially distracted by the collapse of his marriage to an extremely obvious conwoman. And you know, things sour and Carl kind of finds out that Car's Car's been lying to him the whole time. It takes 10 years, but in 1922, he files for an anolment on the grounds of willful deceit. It took 10 years. 10 years. 10 years to realize that he's been had she's the hero of this, by the way. She is good. She's amazing. Yeah, she's the best. I hope she does. She She has a good life after this. Um, Carl, 10 years, my guy. 10 years. Yeah, Carl, sweetheart. Oh, boy. Babe, what's going on? 10 years of like, sorry, I lost I left my real passport in my other skirt or whatever. So, the Catholic Church is not thrilled with his anolment. Um, and Carl proves his fundamental messiness when church while while he's getting anold while they're doing like having like divorce proceedings in court. Um, he meets this 19-year-old Serbian girl named Dushka who's like the translator who's like translating for his wife in court and he starts dating her. What is this? An episode of Sex in the City? Come on. I've heard this before, man. Yeah. Maring describes Carl as living in a quote erotic state of exception during which he continued to cheat with his second wife on multiple women, right? Like he's he's writing about the law. He's writing about like the importance of, you know, spelling out who you are and what you do and not deviating from it. And he is cheating on his second wife. And he keeps a diary. Again, this is another thing that fascists today all do. He keeps a diary of every time he comes. like he is he's like he's charting his ejaculations. This [ __ ] would have been noof fap so [ __ ] hard or like I don't know what is there speaker of the house who like talks about when he's comes and doesn't with his son like he's they're all this guy don't do that don't do that you don't need that data maybe maybe if you were busy paying attention to what was going on Carl it would have taken you 10 years God stop just I'm going to stop just stop yeah I was going to go I was going to go on a logger rant but I remembered off as a complete set. So he he's gotten his marriage and old to the con artist. He's dating a teenager. He's writing in a journal every time he comes. He's just living his best life. That journal may have sold better than that satire magazine he was trying. It's got to be in his letters. I mean, because it gets referenced by Maring. I am I I really wish he just included an extensive like quotation from it. Here's an excerpt. Yeah. Yeah. as someone who washes their hands a lot. I hope he did cuz ew. Nah, they didn't believe in that back then. I have terrible news. I guarantee you he didn't. Yeah, sticky pages. That was my unfortunately that was my first thought. Yeah. No. So Schmidt, while this is all happening after he gets divorced, he's watching the early days of the Nazi party, right? 22 is when he gets divorced. 23 is the beerhole push, which fails. And a lot of people think, well, that's it for them Nazis. Um, and Carl is not initially interested in joining or supporting the movement. He's like, these people seem like yahoos. What he does do is increasingly analyze and start to pick out the obvious flaws in the democratic system of Vimar. And he begins to lay out in a book a theory for exactly why liberal democracy is doomed and how the right can take advantage of these fundamental holes in liberal democracy to smash liberalism, gain power, and destroy democracy. In 1923, the year of the that push, Schmidt writes this about the post-war Wilsonian order imposed on Europe. The history of political and state theory in the 19th century could be summarized with a single phrase, the triumphal march of democracy. No state in the western European cultural world withtood the extension of democratic ideals and institutions. And he writes this in like a mournful way, right? That it's almost like you can't stop it. Um, and you know, you've got Mussolini by this point in Italy, but Hitler is seen as like an upstart weirdo discontent. And there's this there is this attitude that like democracy is obviously on the march. And Schmidt, he picks out, he's like looking at this the way [ __ ] the rebels are looking at the Death Star plans and he finds a vulnerability in liberal democracy that's easy to exploit and he writes his next book about it. That book is called The Crisis of Parliamentary Democracy and it comes out alongside economic and social chaos that's gripping Vimar, right? Um, and I want to quote from Richard Cohen here. The new crisis of democracy, he argued, stemmed precisely from its victory over monarchy. During that struggle, democracy and liberalism were basically co-extensive. To believe in popular sovereignty was put to believe in the necessity of the replacement of absolute monarchy with a regime characterized by elections, free public debate, and legal rights. But in Schmidt's mind, this connection is far more historical happen stance than conceptual necessity, and that democracy properly construed cannot be seen as requiring rights and even universal suffrage in the way that liberals understand them. A government is democratic, Schmidt argues, if it bases its legitimacy on support from the people's will. But this depends on how you define the people and choose to assess their will. Every democracy depends on excluding some people, most notably foreigners, from p participating in the selection of its leaders. That means by definition, no democracy rests on universal human equality before the law. Instead, the idea of equality in democracy really means equality amongst the people in a political community that shares a certain identity and core agreements. There has never been a democracy that did not recognize the concept foreign and that could have realized the equality of all men, he wrote in a 1926 preface to the second edition of of his book. Every actual democracy rests on the principle that not only are equals equal, but unequals will not be treated equally. Democracy requires therefore first homogeneity and second if the need arises elimination and eradication of heterogeneity. Do you see what he's saying here? Son of a [ __ ] Right. Son of a [ __ ] Right. He is Couple things are fascinating to me. Number one, with the exception of the fact that he endorses this, this is essentially how anarchists talk about borders, right? every border the maintain the maintenance of every border implies violence and this is both physical borders like the border between us and Mexico and like what you're seeing right now with the attempt to legislate like what what what counts as a woman with all these anti-trans things both of those borders are maintained by men with guns with violence there's the threat of violence behind building every one of those borders if you cross this border or at least cross it in the wrong way force will be used against you every democracy does this and it does this not just in terms of who can enter the country but who gets to vote. And so even if you have you're saying nice things in your constitution about these are universal rights of men. These are rights that extend to everyone. These aren't just rights that extend to people who are citizens in the country. These are universal rights that our society universally recognizes. That doesn't necessarily mean squat because what you do as the reactionary is you find that border wherever it exists and you start pushing inward. And as you start pushing inward from that border, you will start fracturing the democratic consensus that exists until you can destroy democracy. And that's how you gain power as a reactionary movement within a liberal. That's how you destroy liberalism. You find the border that they placed and you start pushing inwards. Right? That's what Carl realizes and that's what he lays out and it works today as well as it did back then. She's got the chills. Jesus. Yeah. Oh boy. Oh boy. It's great. Yeah. It's wonder it's it's right. It's correct. I mean, yeah. Yeah. No, he's he has accurately identified the flaw in the system and how to how to exploit it. Um he writes, quote, "Democracy and liberalism could be allied to each other for a time, but as soon as it achieves power, liberal democracy must decide between its elements. The crisis of the modern state arises from the fact that no state can realize a mass democracy, a democracy of mankind." Maybe he'll prove right about that in the future. Maybe he won't, but we've never tried, right? O ultimately we haven't. Um, the most potent part of Cohen's essay, he described Schmidt's academic work in the late 1920s as creating a blueprint, quote, adaptable virtually anywhere for using reactionary politics to gain control of and destroy democracy from the inside while pretending to be in service of that democracy. Now, elements of this had been discussed by several thinkers, particularly in the context of the US during the era of slavery. But Schmidt's big cont one of his big contributions is that he recognizes race and religion can be used to push that border in. But they don't matter. That's not the only way to delineate the enemy. You all that matters is that you are delineating an enemy, right? And pulling them out of being considered part of the body politic. They can be Jews, they can be black, they could be trans, they can be whoever. But what matters ultimately is that you're picking an enemy and you are identifying them as not a part of us, right? Um and that's that's that's the ball game, right? Um and less than or less conniving and a danger to us, right? Right. Um so uh Schmidt argued, you know, not only that this is how you manipulate democracy because unlike what liberals say, exclusion is at the core of democratic politics. He writes this in 1932 in a book considered to be perhaps the most important intellectual work of fascism's birth era. The concept of the political quote every religious, moral, economic, ethical or other antithesis transforms into a political one if it is sufficiently strong to group human beings effectively according to friend and enemy. So he has first this recognition of that like liberalism inherently liberal democracy always draws a border. you start pushing in from that border and then he he refineses this to the idea that like all politics is about defining friend and enemy right and that's how you gain power and that's how you enshrine your power right and once you have once you have identified a group of citizens as the enemy and you gain power you exclude them from the franchise you turn them into a domestic enemy which you can then purge and destroy and that's how you maintain power per an article in the New Statesman by Samuel Earl. That a specific distinction to which political actions and motives can be reduced is that between friend and enemy, Schmidt declared. His fellow anti-democratic and decorated soldier Ernst Younger described what followed as a mind that silently explodes. For Schmidt, the friend enemy antithesis was integral for politics in three senses. The enemy needed to be something different and alien. Opposing such an enemy was the essence of identity and in the implicit combat that followed these enemies posed an existential threat. The friend enemy and combat concepts received their real meaning precisely because they referred to the real possibility of physical killing. Schmidt wrote, "War was therefore an everpresent possibility." And again, the Nazis are doing a lot of this before he writes about it. But number one, his initial work on sort of this strategy of how to push it on the border influences how the Nazis proceed. But also, he is he is explaining what they're doing in an intellectual way that is accurate and and doing so in a way that's also not ideological in that he's explaining and describing an ideology, but he's not doing it as a Nazi propagandist. He's doing it as an academic, right? And he's doing it in a way that provides a blueprint for other people. Um, that's such an interesting distinction between him and Gerbles where I feel like that would be, you know, like kind of the I don't want to say lazy because this is my I'm making the comparison, but like my lazy comparison where it's like Gerbles obviously, all right, let's it's propaganda, you know, like there's more quote unquote spice on it, where this with Schmidt, it's just this is how it works. This is why it works and this is why it will work. Yeah. And you do get kind of at the end of this book he does give you get a hint of his developing ideology and part of it why why he hates liberalism is that liberalism seek is an onslaught against the political. It seeks to replace conflict, which he views as natural, with economic competition and quote perpetual discussion. And that this doesn't end in a better society, but like kind of a destruction of something important at the soul of humanity, right? Which is this crusade against an enemy, right? That we almost we need this as people. We need to have enemies that we we we which is a fundamental part of fascism, right? We need enemies in order to be fully human like an enemy to fight, to destroy, to rally against. Now, Schmidt was not an early Nazi. He was not a particular admirer of Hitler. In the early 1920s, he described Hitler as a hysteric. In 1932, the same year he published the concept of the political. He argued that the VHimar government could and should use the military to destroy Nazism. But as the Nazis began began taking power, he changed his tune quickly from a mix of, you know, he wants to protect himself, but most importantly because high-ranking Nazis start to take him seriously as a thinker. And he had been doing okay. His books have been doing better, but he really starts to become famous because there's some high up Nazis who like what he has to say. And his particular backer, the guy who's going to make him give him the opportunity to be the rich intellectual he's always wanted to be, right? who's going to make his life possible is Herman Garing right now. Garing is about to be he's this World War I pilot like a fighter pilot hero. He literally takes over like um the Red Baron squadron after he gets like shot down. That's what Garing does in the war. He gets [ __ ] up and horribly injured during the Munich beerhole push and addicted to painkillers. Relatable. Um there it is. But when Hitler takes power, he's the Reich's marshal, right? He's going to lose favor throughout the Third Reich. But he is on paper the guy who if Hitler dies is supposed to take over, right? So that's the degree to which like Garing is held in esteem at the start of the Reich. Um and he takes a liking to Schmidt's work. He's like this guy this guy gets it. This guy and we need to bring this guy in and have him be like our court philosopher, right? He's kind of become because Nazi intelligencia had been following him for a while. He's a little bit of like a Curtis Yarvin figure, right? where he doesn't really have as clear a goal as Yarvin does, but there are a lot of these guys who become Nazi intelligencia who are following him for a while and and respect him for a while. Um, for his part, Carl's part, once it becomes clear that the Nazis are going to win, he's like, well, if some of these guys like me, I can get rich and powerful. That's what I've always wanted. So, he starts sucking up and he writes that Garing was the right type for these times. As he becomes a darling for the far right, Schmidt continues to live a life well out of line with the stated morals of the movement for which he is becoming the chief intellectual theoretician. Per the Claremont Review of Books, guilt and OS combined for Schmidt. In Carl Theodore Dreer's silent movie, The Passion of Jon of Arc, with an almost sadistic use of close-ups, Dreer depicts the doomed heroine, a daughter of God charged with being a child of the devil, as she pleads that she has only fought for God and country. In 1928, Schmidt watched the film a dozen times. Maring reports that on several occasions in both Berlin and Rome, he picked up a prostitute to watch it with him. It seems that his longing for redemption from his own psychic turmoil fueled a need for a higher absolute obligation which could only come from a commitment to the law promulgated by God or by the state. So there's this this attitude like maybe it's because he can't he's got this kind of compulsive sexuality that he can't just be like ah people just [ __ ] you know? He has to he has to like condemn himself and find absolution in this idea of law or the state as God as representing some higher natural truth in order to gain absolution. It's also just funny that he's constantly watching this Jon of Arc movie while picking up prostitutes. Like you want to go watch Jonah Ark. Um, speaking of watching silent films, here's Makes no sense. That made no sense. I I got nothing. I got nothing. I don't know how to do a [ __ ] ad transition in these episodes. Look, go to Rome, uh, meet somebody nice, watch a movie about a French lady getting tortured, you know? Have fun. You become fake pope once and you no longer know how to do an ad transition. Yeah. Yeah. Well, the popes popes don't need ads cuz they have all that gold buried under the the Vatican. Sophie, we're back. Man, I wonder they got to have a lot of gold buried under there, right? Like a crazy amount. Like Oh, in the Vatican. Yeah. Yeah. Like enough to ruin the like the price of gold worldwide if they ever put it onto the market. Yeah. I don't think so because there were so many different things where like things were getting stolen. I think they would have I there's probably secret gold, but I don't I don't think it got to be secret gold as obvious as there. What What do they use for all the lawsuits? Like it has to be Oh, yeah. They they had to had a lot lying around for that. Um what if we all naruto run into the Vatican archives and just try to like see what we can get? I would have so much fun going to the Vatican archives. Find the secret sequel to the New Testament where Palpatine returns. Uh, I'm excited. I think we can I think we can make this happen. Um, so yeah, use your new power as fake pope. Yeah, that's right. That's right. I'll tell the Swiss Guard to stand down. Yeah. Yeah. I'll be with their goofy outfits. Stupid ass outfits. I'll be right behind you as you do that. In April of 1933, Schmidt joined the Nazi party officially. In May, he published an article that is generally considered to be the blueprint for the legal expulsion of German intellectuals who had unacceptable political or racial characteristics. Quote, "Germany has spat them out for all time," he said. And he's talking specifically about Albert Einstein, right? Schmidt authors the blueprint for kicking Einstein and other thinkers permanently out of the Reich, right? And and describing them as enemies, right? And for him, this is a political term. And this is about this is one year after he breaks off his friendship with Eisler. But he does write you as an individual can be friends with someone who is a political enemy because again that's a political state. You have to treat them as an enemy when doing politics but it doesn't mean you can't like them personally socially. But you're also accepting that it means killing them at a stage. So maybe you can't. I don't know. Maybe killing them politically, not not as friends. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So is that logic I check out? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. I mean, as much as anything this [ __ ] says does. So through most of the 20s, liberals and liberalism were the center of most of Schmidt's rhetorical eyeire, but Jews grew more central as time went on. Now, we've already covered that he certainly embied the racial anti-semitism of the era, and he had occasional flings of bigotry during times of stress and depression, but he also spoke glowingly of several Jews in his life. Most crucially, he was completely dependent economically upon the kindness of a Jewish family who treated him as a second son, right? Like that's a big deal in this period of time is that like there's these this family that keeps him alive. But now that he was a prominent Nazi academic whose writings were not just cited, but were being used to make law under the Third Reich, he starts being critiqued by like Jewish academics. I mean, but this happens before the Third Reich is established. And this is part of like what radicalizes him is that in the late 20s when it becomes clear that he's like writing in favor of elements of fascism these there's several different uh Jewish academics critique his book the crisis of parliamentary democracy and he goes on a rant that and complains four Jews against one Christian they attack me in all the journals and no one notices what's going on. Um so that's a big part if you're wondering like what's the missing piece here between him like dumping his Jewish friends and going full Nazi. Well, it's because some Jewish professors say mean things about this book, he writes. Um, later that year, a Jewish professor was being considered for hiring by his university, and Schmidt wrote in to call his wouldbe colleague a disgusting craven dilotant Jew. So, by the mid20s, he's very consistently racist, but he's still friends with Eisler, right up until the 30s, and he's still able to make exceptions in his head. Unlike most Nazis, the the justification he gives for his animus is not racial, right? He is someone who is like if I think his belief initially at least is that like, well, Jews can convert and stuff and then I don't have to treat them that way. But his issue with them is that they tend to be liberal, right? And so he interprets the battle that he is he's laying out the the the lines, how you win a battle against liberal democracy, and he describes it as a battle against the Jewish spirit. Per an article by Benjamin Balant for the Claremont Review of Books, his in friend enemy distinction now fed into the contrast he drew between the homogeneous German vulk and the alien Jew. He hastily severed his friendships and associations with Jews, including his longtime publisher, Ludvig Fugwanganger, and the young scholar of Hobs and Spinosa, Leo Strauss, whom he had recommended to the Rockefeller Foundation for a SC fellowship that allowed Strauss to leave Germany a year before. By the early 30s, as he moved from scholarship to polyimics, Schmidt no longer directed his counter-revolutionary fervor against VHimar anarchism. And by anarchism, he means the fact that the state doesn't work very well. So, he cuts off all of these academic friends, including Have you heard of Leo Strauss? I know the name. Yeah, I' I've heard of the name. Yeah. Very influential. All of the people behind George W. Bush were Straussians. And when I say that, I'm talking about guys like Bill Crystal, who's now like anti-Trump. Bill Crystal is a Straussian. The Straussians are the neocons. Strauss is initially very close with Schmidt and Schmidt influences Strauss and Strauss influences Schmidt. Strauss's career gets Schmidt is basically his mentor for a while, right? He helps him get this scholarship, right? And then Strauss comes to the United States and he becomes a core intellectual mind behind neoonservatism, right? So again, the the way in which this guy e even though like obviously there's no love lost between them once Schmidt goes full Nazi because Strauss is Jewish, right? Um so once the Third Reich gets into power and Schmidt has the chance to actually be making laws, he warps his personal politics in order to fit, you know, the regime that's now in place. No longer does he talk about the state working towards some sort of natural law. Instead, he begins to argue that political sovereignty is constituted in the will of the leader or dictator who was sovereign and who had no kind of check and could abide no kind of check on his power. Per an article on the power of Carl Schmidt by Richard Cohen. The dictator's will is arbitrary and must be arbitrary. This is not a fault for the fascist but the highest virtue. The dictator's will is a pure will unchecked and unregulated by any exterior consideration beyond itself. like a god, like the god. Only as such is it a truly sovereign will. The dictator can never be challenged. In other words, because there are no grounds upon which to challenge him. Thus, any challenge, any criticism, no matter how rational, realistic, or goodwilled, is by definition betrayal. From the standpoint of all allegedly legitimizing authorities, whether ethical, populist, hereditary, religious, aesthetic, utilitarian, economic, or what have you, the dictator's decision is beyond reproach. Force, power, and might are the dictator's first and final resort, and submission is the only appropriate response. Rule, call it law or not, is to dictate order and command. Thus, the ubiquitous military trappings of fascism, however ludicrous, the dictator wearing battle fatigues or dressed uniforms adorned with medals, the pomp and ceremony, the military parades, and the displays of weapons in times of quiet as well as war. Without criteria or standards, the dictator is sovereignty itself, no matter what he says or does precisely in what he says and does, as he says and does it, always at the moment of his willing. So he's gone from the only legitimate states have a constitution that lays out what the rules are and they follow that constitution and law is always working towards some sort of natural law. Two, the law is whatever the leader says it is, right? human will creates law, right? That the will of a specific human in put in charge of a people creates law, right? That's where Schmidt has ended, you know, now that democracy has been destroyed, now that Hitler's in power and he's working backwards to a degree at this point from the fact that Hitler has taken power, right? But this is again like he's he's he's kind of describing what's happening to some extent after the fact. But he's also he he comes to understand and justify sovereignty as a permanent state of emergency or a state of exception. Right? Fascism is like the normalization legalization of arbitrary power. So we even do see some of like his early thinking on like how judges work and the kind of arbitrariness at the center of the legal system like this is where he winds up right that this is kind of the ultimate political system. Um it it is interesting too where he would talk about how like democracy was you know it's it only works because of the eventual force that can be applied you know where there it's eventual with a dictator just wearing fatigues dressed like a general you know with the military parades it's not implied it's not eventual it's immediate you know it's a very yeah the imagery really drives it home yes more so right yeah and thanks to Garing's influence, he gets made president of the Union of National Socialist Jurists. Uh, in 1934, after the night of long knives, Schmidt plays a role in justifying and legitimating what had happened. Um, you know, this looks like and is an an illegal series of murders committed, you know, to settle political scores. But Schmidt argues this is actually perfectly legal, right? He he he publishes an article called the furer protects the law which argues that what Hitler had done was the highest justice available. Right? Uh quote the furer protects the law against the worst forms of abuse when in the moment of danger he immediately creates law by force of his character as fearer as the supreme legal authority. And again I think we have to look at maybe where we're headed with some of these courts questioning the decisions being made by Trump by dictat. This is already what Trump's people believe. Trump creates law by force of his character, right? And you know, Schmidt has provided a justification for purging people in situations like this, right? Because the furer has to protect the law by carrying out illegal acts of violence because he then creates a new law. And so the the concept of law fundamentally is protected by the furer doing this. So there is no lawlessness. You know, there's never there's never a gap. It's a new dictator's law. There's lawlessness if there's a conflict, right, between the fearer and power. That's lawlessness, right? And that's what Hitler was fighting against, right? That's why he was protecting the law by doing what he did. Mhm. Um he celebrates like when the Nermberg laws come in uh he he describes it as proof that the national socialist state is a just state. Um and then in 1936 uh he helps convene a conference on how to get rid of Jewish influence in ger in German law. He gives a speech where he blames the Jews for hollowing out the German healthy vulkish German way of thinking of the state. uh and he calls for a purification of libraries that includes a separate system of citations for Jewish authors. Right? So there he is explicitly endorsing book bannings, the purging of books written by friends and colleagues of his, a separate way of classifying them because obviously Jewish law is a danger to good Germans. Right. Well, and they made fun of him. They made fun of him. They talk [ __ ] about his his book, his awful writing, right? So he is deeply complicit in the early Third Reich and in the purging of intellectuals and people getting put he's incredibly complicit in all of this. Now unfortunately for Schmidt this in 1936 this this speech he gives is going to be like the high watermark of his power in the Third Reich because once the Nazis are running everything they're like we don't really need an academic with a mind of his own, right? We got it. We've got it now. We're done thinking, you know. Um, and this guy, he's not really loyal to Hitler, right? Um, so in December of 36, the SS newspaper publishes a hit piece on him accusing him of being a Hegelian, which is basically true, and a false anti-semite, which really isn't. He talked to friends about like fleeing Germany. He was like, "Maybe I need to leave. Maybe this is dangerous." But it's not something he ever seriously considered. And he does have some defenders who will be like, "Well, look, he thought about leaving." And like, "I don't know if that counts to me. Um Hana Hana Arent would later write about Schmidt's ouster from the Nazi party as a fairly standard move. The replacing of sympathetic but skilled people with toadies who are utterly loyal to the system even if they're not very good at anything. Quote from Arent and this is I think an important one especially for right now. Totalitarianism in power invariably replaces all first rate talents, regardless of their sympathies, with those crackpots and fools whose lack of intelligence and creativity is still the best guarantee of their loyalty. Not at all. Nothing familiar there. I'm not picking up on what an old idea. Common themes. Yes. What an ancient idea. Now, he was never Schmidt is neverounded by the regime or punished. He's never in serious danger. He's out of the any kind of inner circle here. He he's on on the kind of the outskirts looking in again, but he maintains his position. He keeps being a employed at the university. He's a prominent academic and he lives well up and through most of the war years. But by the time the war ends and the allies begin to occupy the ruins of the Third Reich, his last public identity had been as a Nazi intellectual who was participating in the purging of intellectuals. Um, and so he gets arrested by the Americans in September of 1945. He's locked up for like a month or so. Um, and you know, he's he's trying to put a brave face on it. He tells his wife like, "I'm not going to collapse like some of these other guys who killed themselves or whatever. Like, I'm I'm going to hold up, you know, they'll they'll realize I'm not guilty of anything." And unfortunately, he's kind of right. You know, he gets released. He gets arrested again in March and April of 1947 and he he's brought to Nuremberg um who where he gets inter interrogated by the US chief counsel at Nuremberg Robert Kempner uh four times over the course of about a month or so 5 weeks and you know he's basically Kempner is trying to figure out is there anything we can go after this guy for like how much is he responsible for how many crimes did he directly commit and Schmidt is like look I wasn't trying to support all the horrible things the Nazis do. You know, I'm not a Nazi ever really. I'm an intellectual adventurer. That's how he describes himself is like, "Look, I was just asking questions." Yeah. He's such a piece of [ __ ] We should have shot this guy in the [ __ ] face. Um Yeah. Immediately. I I I want to read a little transcript of his interview with Kempner that makes for fascinating reading because this is Kempner being like, "What the [ __ ] do you mean by intellectual adventurer?" I wanted to give the term national socialism my own meeting. Schmidt said Kempner. Hitler had a national socialism and you had a national socialism. Schmidt, I felt superior. Kempner, you felt superior to Adolf Hitler. Schmidt. Intellectually, of course, he was to me so uninteresting that I do not want to talk about that at all. When did you renounce the devil? Kempner asked. 1936. And I believe that he didn't like Hitler, right? because he doesn't he's he's never an intellectual respector of Hitler particularly, but this is [ __ ] right? Like he like you you participated in purging your colleagues. You were so psyched that people were listening to you. That's all that matters. You only renounced the devil because the SS got angry at you and you lost your influence, right? Like this man never had a change of heart. Um, I'm thinking of who Schmidt I might be getting ahead of ourselves of who he would favor out of a Hitler and then you have a Trump. Like who was the ideal? I think it might be Putin might be the ideal one for him. Fascinating that you bring that up. This brief after war period marked the last time Schmidt would discuss his support of the Nazis directly. He returned to Plutenberg and continued to write, although he was fired from his professorship. He found no trouble getting published though, and once around 20 years had passed, his name starts getting tossed around by conservative intellectuals around the world. First in whispered tones, but then in an increasingly brazen manner. Schmidt dies in 1985, and he lives to see the beginning of his second rise to prominence. And one of them, you've heard of Marine Le Pen over in uh in France. The she just got incarcerated for a bunch of [ __ ] but she's like the leader of their fascist party. her father founded the party. Her father is a Schmidt acolyte. Her father, the whole blueprint of the French farright is directly taken from Schmidt. That's why it's so centered on immigrants and immigration, right? Like they are very consciously the the French I think it's the national party that Le Pin leads is their whole blueprint is Schmidt. Schmidt is the guy like they are openly citing and quoting his writings at the very start of that party. Um, now more to the point, uh, there's another fellow who becomes one of his acolytes who like finds Schmidt's writing and is like, "Oh, this is a really good blueprint for how to get in power as a reactionary movement and destroy a nent liberal democracy." And that guy is named Alexander Dugan. Now, Dugan is an ultra-ist who is seen as the primary political philosopher of the Russian new right. And he's often called Putin's court philosopher. Right? These ideas are also a major backbone of how Putin gets into power of like the strategy he uses and how a lot of his adherence and the new Russian new right see what they're doing there. He's he's in the French farright. He's in the Russian farright that kind of coaleses around Putin. And in the US, the main vehicle for Schmidt's ideas getting into the halls of power is through the work of a thinker who had once been his colleague, Leo Strauss. Strauss, a Jewish scientist, fled to France when Hitler took power on a Rockefeller scholarship and Carl Schmidt had been his adviser. There's a very good piece in the website Lib Mob that traces out the connections here. There are very close ties between the conservative political scientist Patrick Dinan, Catholic University of Notre Dame, Indiana, Strauss adept and winner of the Leo Strauss award for best dissertation and vice president JD Vance. And he provides a couple of quotes from Schmidt and from Vance. One is this is a Schmidt quote from 1922. Authority proves that it does not need to be right in order to be right. And JD Vance saying judges aren't allowed to control the executive's legitimate power. And you might even add in some of those statements that Vance made about like Haitian like literal lies about Haitian refugees where it's like it doesn't matter what's true. You make it true by having power, right? Um there's another quote here uh from Schmidt in 32. The rule of law means nothing other than the legitimization of a certain status quo. These are all very idea. you could hear basically these [ __ ] quotes being trumpeted, you know, among Trumpists, among these like unitary executive theory guys. And that's kind of it's both Schmidt's thinking first starts to influence the American right in a major way with like the neocons who are kind of influenced by him partly through Strauss, guys like Bill Crystal, right? Um, and David Brooks, right? these guys who are very influenced by Strauss, but by the time Trump comes around and things have gotten too extreme for them, the like people like um uh Curtis Yarvid will just quote Carl Schmidt. He's a huge fan of Schmidt. Like he he brings him up constantly. JD Vance is fans of a of a Strauss scholar who himself is influenced by Schmidt. Like Schmidt's thinking is all throughout the entire right-wing project worldwide. you know, from France to Russia to the United States, there's pieces of him everywhere, even though most people are not taking his work directly, but they're influenced by thinkers who were influenced by Schmidt um and who adopted some of his ideas for their own. And and most importantly, the basic strategy that Schmidt laid out, I mean, unfortunately, still works quite well. Yeah. Crazy. Yeah. Crazy. Yeah. Great. Anyway, Yeah. Anyway. Yeah. Anyway, I'm sure that'll go away soon. I'm sure we have nothing to worry about. Mhm. Yeah. I think we've got it. I think we'll knock it out. Um, you know, so this JD Vance guy, he's not high up in the government or anything, right? Like he's I haven't heard of him in in years. Uh, neither. Haven't heard of him in years. I I By the way, you should read his Jiz book. It's Yeah, his his [ __ ] diary. Yeah, it's fantastic. Oh, man. Yeah. The JD Vance Come Diaries. A real quite a publication. Yeah, it is. It is. Yeah. Um well, I don't know. How are you feeling at the end of this, Blake? Well, I um I mean bad, but I I do also feel like I learned a lot. It does explain it is very interesting to learn how we got to where we are today. And the the scaryest part is or one of the many scary parts is that people it's not hidden any more. You know the and even with JD Vance you don't have to go on a long sleuththing trip to figure out that he is a Schmidt guy. It's what two two one degree of separation away. A Strauss degree. And some people are like you said just outright quoting Schmidt like Yarvin who's also connected to Vance and yeah it is interesting that like in an earlier era these neocons who now in a lot of cases have aligned themselves with anti-Trump stuff are still they're they're the guys who are first pushing unitary executive theory which is like what leads to the president's basically a king right like that's the end result and they're Strauss is a big influence on them there right and then we get to this point where you can you don't have to just quote Strauss, you don't have to water it down at all. You can just go pure Schmidt, baby. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. Right to the source. I I wonder my I guess my question for you is I wonder how much Schmidt would value an outwardly intelligent dictator and if he would even necessarily see value in that where, you know, Hitler was like incredibly charismatic. Obviously, no one would say that he was a [ __ ] gen. I mean, Schmidt wouldn't say that he was a genius. Um, Trump is obviously not is is outwardly stupid, but very charismatic obviously in Ken. He's got a kind of cunning that's very effective for what he needs to do. Yeah. Yes. I I wonder, you know, like you have Saddam who is his like he had the dress, you know, like he looked the part. Like I I do wonder if Putin do you know of any like outwardly you know even like faux intellectual you know like oh actually I mean we were talking about earlier Schmidt is a very smart guy he's just horrendously evil. So can you think of any dictators who were like learned dictators? I it depends on what you you mean by learned, right? Cuz like, you know, Stalin makes a lot of hideous mistakes that cost a lot of people their lives, particularly in the early stages of the fighting with the Nazis, but like is a an educated man who like has read read extensively and you know like he's he's not like a he's not like a a rube, right? Um you know, Tito was I I don't I I know don't know nearly as much about his actual education. was clearly an incredibly intelligent person, right? Just the the the degree of success he had both as a dictator and as an insurgent leader proves him like Fidel Castro, right? That's a smart man, right? It's a man who has a great degree of of cunning, you know, and understanding. And I do think there are very smart people around. I don't think Peter Teal's dumb. I think he's nuts and I think he has some blind spots and a freak, but he understands how to do certain things very well. There's kinds of intelligence that he has. Um I think Trump has kinds of intelligence. He's been working at this for 20some years. So I I don't know like learned I think they I think I guess the answer is they tend to learn the things they need to learn to get where they want to go, right? They have expertise, right? Does Donald Trump is he does he have like a great knowledge of all of the things that you know you and I might respect being informed of? No. But he knew enough to figure out how to dismantle democracy um and how to get people around him who knew more about it. Right. And so I guess I'd say dictators tend to be learned in the things they need to be learned in to become dictators. Right. No, I think that's perfectly put. Yeah. Yeah. I agree with that. Yeah. Anyway, this is how all these episodes end. Jesus Christ. Just us mumbling to ourselves. I don't I don't know what the [ __ ] to do. Like, where do I even move? Mhm. Yeah. [ __ ] Canada is not an option. Yeah. Is it Portugal? Do I become a Portuguese windbag? Is that my Yeah. Become your get become a Portuguese windbag. You guys, it's fine. Robert will let us into the Vatican. Yeah. Thank you. the Vatican. That's where we're all going to hide with all the gold. Ah, okay. So, I don't know. I I tend to think what you should do is and out, right? Um, yeah. And you can find a lot of the blueprints you'll need on the internet. Anyway, uh, episode is over. Blake, uh, you want to plug anything before we go? Yeah, I would. Uh, I have a Jiz book of my own. I would like to promote um August 1st I'm going to be doing standup in Philadelphia. Also uh Blake Wexler on all social media. Um if you could follow me there, I would love that. And I'm doing a bike ride to raise money for autism research, autism awareness. Um and that if you can spend uh spare anything, it's times are tough right now, but um any donation if you can do it would be great. It's uh that link is in my bio. and I have a stand-up comedy special called Daddy Longlegs, which is available for free on YouTube. And this was a blast. I I have so much respect for both of you. This is this is I don't I don't know if I've ever said this sentence. This is a great podcast. Like this is a great show. This is a fantastic show and um no one no one does what you do. So yeah, I appreciate being a couple people do. We have the pope. We have the new pope. We have the pope. You do have the new pop. And that's how you got elected by your your fellow colleagues, cardinals. Yeah. Uh if if you are a Oh my god. There needs to be a podcast conclave. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh yeah. To see who the podcasting pope is. Yeah. And just like the Pope. It better not be one of the pod save guys or I'm doing a schism. I mean it would I mean if thinking about it, it would have to be in that that guy Sean Sean Men who just who has the podcast Pantheon book coming out later this year that we're we're in that book. So, we get to be in the conclave. If there if there is if there's a if it doesn't go my way, I'm moving to Avagnon and I'm going to create like a a counter conclave and they're going to have us in an anti the [ __ ] we can get. Oh my god, Robert. We h It has to happen. It has to happen. We could save America. We could do We could do so much [ __ ] Oh, I'm plotting. I'm plotting. Okay. Anyways, Blake Blake, thank you so much for being here. This was so lovely. Robert. Robert, that was horrifying. Did we do it? Did we do the podcast? We did the podcast. Let's go away. Okay. [Music]